1. What is the difference between "Merge" and "Append" in Power Query?
Merge combines columns from two or more tables based on a key (like SQL JOIN).
Example: Merge Orders and Customers by CustID.
Append stacks rows from two or more tables with the same columns.
Example: Append Orders_Jan and Orders_Feb to combine monthly sales.
2. How do you split a "Full Name" column into "First Name" and "Last Name"?
Select the Full Name column
Go to: Transform → Split Column → By Delimiter
Choose delimiter: Space
It will create two columns: First Name and Last Name
3. What is "Pivot Columns" used for?
Pivot Columns converts values in one column into column headers.
Example:
Original:

CustID	Product	Quantity
101	    Laptop	 1
101	    Mouse	   2

After Pivoting "Product":

CustID	Laptop	Mouse
101	     1	    2

4. How do you undo a step in Power Query?
In the "Applied Steps" pane (right side):

Click the "X" next to the step to delete it

Or, press Ctrl + Z immediately after the action

5. What is the purpose of "Reference" vs. "Duplicate" in queries?
Duplicate creates a copy of the query with all steps, which are independent

Reference creates a new query that is linked to the original, so changes to the source affect the reference

6. Merge Orders.csv and Customers.xlsx on CustID (inner join).
Steps:

Load both tables into Power Query

Select Orders → Home → Merge Queries

Choose Customers as the second table

Join on CustID

Join kind: Inner

Expand the merged columns

7. Pivot the Product column to show total Quantity per product.
Steps:

Select the Product column

Go to: Transform → Pivot Column

Values column: Quantity

Aggregate function: Sum

Result: Each product becomes a column with total Quantity values.

8. Append two tables with identical columns (e.g., Orders_Jan.csv + Orders_Feb.csv).
Steps:

Load both tables

Go to: Home → Append Queries

Select both tables

Result: One combined table with all rows

9. Use "Fill Down" to replace nulls in the Email column with the previous value.
Steps:

Select Email column

Go to: Transform → Fill → Down

This fills nulls with the last non-null value above them.

10. Extract the domain (e.g., "example.com") from the Email column.
Steps:

Use this M-code in Add Column → Custom Column:
Text.AfterDelimiter([Email], "@")
11. Write M-code to merge queries dynamically based on a parameter (e.g., JoinType = "Inner").
Example:
let
    JoinType = "Inner",
    Merged = Table.NestedJoin(Orders, {"CustID"}, Customers, {"CustID"}, "NewTable", JoinKind.Inner)
in
    Merged
To make it fully dynamic, replace JoinKind.Inner with a variable switch if needed.

12. Unpivot a table with columns like "Jan_Sales," "Feb_Sales" into a "Month" and "Sales" format.
Steps:

Select Jan_Sales, Feb_Sales, etc.

Go to: Transform → Unpivot Columns

Result: Columns become rows

One column = "Month"

One column = "Sales"

13. Handle errors in a custom column (e.g., division by zero) using try...otherwise.
Example:
try [Revenue] / [UnitsSold] otherwise 0
This avoids errors and returns 0 if division by zero happens.

14. Create a function in Power Query to clean phone numbers (e.g., remove dashes).
Steps:
Go to Home → Advanced Editor
Write a custom function:
(phone as text) =>
let
    cleaned = Text.Select(phone, {"0".."9"})
in
    cleaned
Then apply it to your phone number column using Invoke Custom Function

15. Optimize a query with 10+ steps—identify bottlenecks and simplify.
Tips:
Remove unused columns early
Avoid excessive change type steps
Merge/join only when needed
Use buffering for repeated queries: Table.Buffer(Source)
Check for redundant steps in Applied Steps and remove them
